# Quick start

## Prerequisites

You need [node](https://nodejs.org/) `>= 8.6.0` to use Mono since it uses native `async`/`await`.

## New project

It is recommended to use [create-mono-app](https://github.com/terrajs/create-mono-app), which helps creating new Mono app in seconds:

```
npx create-mono-app <my-mono-app>
```

If you use `npm` 5.1 or earlier, you can't use `npx`. Instead, install `create-mono-app` globally:

```
npm install -g create-mono-app
create-mono-app <my-mono-app>
```

Then answer the prompts as follows:

```
? What is the name of your new Mono app? my-mono-app
? How would you descripe your Mono app? Grand app with Mono
? Do you want to use ESLINT? yes
? Do you want to use MongoDB in your app? yes
```

It will setup your project, initialize a git repository and install all the required dependencies.

> By using `create-mono-app`, you make sure to have all the necessary tools to start building your Web API without any configuration following the [best practices](https://github.com/i0natan/nodebestpractices) for Node.js applications.

### Starting the project

Let's start our newly created Mono application:

```
cd <my-mono-app>
npm run dev
```

In a browser, visit [http://localhost:8000/_](http://localhost:8000/_) to try it out.

Mono comes with some built-in routes, the documentation is available in the [routes section](/routes?id=built-in-routes).

## Tree Structure

It structurates your project as follows:

```
├── conf
│   ├── application.js
│   ├── development.js
│   ├── production.js
│   └── test.js
├── src
│   ├── hello
│   │   ├── hello.acl.js
│   │   ├── hello.init.js
│   │   └── hello.routes.js
│   └── todos
│       ├── todos.controller.js
│       ├── todos.routes.js
│       ├── todos.service.js
│       └── todos.validation.js
└── test
    └── api.test.js
├── .editorconfig
├── .eslintrc.json
├── .gitignore
├── .travis.yml
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── README.md
```

#### conf/

This is where your app configuration lives, a basic config is already generated, so you can update it right away.

The documentation is available in the [configuration section](/configuration).

#### src/

This is where you will write your API routes, controllers, services and awesome features.

You can take a look at the different file types documentation:

- [*.routes.js](/routes)

### Scripts

It will create a `package.json` with some scripts:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "mono dev",
    "start": "cross-env NODE_ENV=production mono",
    "lint": "eslint src/ conf/ test/",
    "test": "npm run lint && nyc ava --verbose --serial --fail-fast test/ && nyc report --reporter=html",
    "coverage": "nyc report --reporter=text-lcov > coverage.lcov && codecov"
  }
}
```

## Mono Commands

#### dev

Run `mono` in development mode.

This binary abstracts the creation of a `server.js` entry file and uses `nodemon` to provide live reload.

#### start

Run `mono` binary in production with `NODE_ENV=production` using `cross-env` in order to make life easier for Windows users.

#### lint

Run [ESLint](https://eslint.org) in your code located in `src/`, `conf/` and `test/` directories.

#### test

Run the tests with coverage.

The CLI will setup all you need to have to start testing right away with [ava](https://github.com/avajs/ava) and [nyc](https://github.com/istanbuljs/nyc) to have coverage report when the tests are done.

#### coverage

Run the coverage and uses and [codecov](https://github.com/codecov/codecov-node) to upload it to [Codecov.io](https://codecov.io).

### Modules

Mono offers a module system to plug any functionality in your project.

When you create your app with the CLI, it asks you if you want to use MongoDB, which is one of the official mono modules, so you can see how easily modules integrates with mono.

### Examples

Some examples are generated by `create-mono-app` in the src/ folder so you can see mono in action.

### Tests

An `api.test.js` file is generated in order to test the generated *hello* and *todos* resources.
